>> Groundbreaking new studies on
the power of the mind to change
the structure of water and
even help stem cells grow.
>> Does it matter what I think
about something at a distance?
And if it turns out that it
does, that changes everything.
>> This is Gaia News.
Water, the most plentiful
substance on Earth,
has been shown to have the
unique property of recording
and storing information.
For this reason, it
has recently been
used as a target in
the scientific study
of mind-matter interactions.
Dr. Dean Radin is the Chief
scientist at the Institute
of Noetic Sciences, or IONS,
which has for the last 50 years
been at the
forefront of studying
the frontiers of consciousness.
Since 2006, Dr. Radin
has led several studies
on the effect of
mental intention
on water, culminating with a
groundbreaking, just-published
experiment.
>> We're interested in
mind-matter interactions where
water is the target because we
are composed mostly of water.
One of the questions,
then, when it
comes to any kind
of psychic healing,
distant healing,
energy medicine,
maybe the reason why it
works is because the mind
can influence
properties of water,
because then it would
obviously influence all of us.
So some years ago,
we did studies
to look at the claims of
Dr. Emoto, who became famous
as a result of putting different
kinds of mental intentions
into water and then making
little frozen crystals.
And his claim was that if
you think beautiful thoughts
at the water and you
make the crystals,
the crystals will
look beautiful.
And if you think ugly
thoughts, then you
get ugly-looking crystals.
>> When IONS conducted two
rigorous studies to validate
Dr. Emoto's work, the scientists
found that the effect held.
The quality of the attention
placed on the water
directly affected the
configuration of the crystals.
In another more recent
study, Dr. Radin and his team
explored the effect
of intention on water
as part of an experiment
looking at energy healing.
>> We were looking at different
kinds of energy medicine
practitioners, and then
almost 200 clients,
each of which had
carpal tunnel syndrome.
Each person then would be
treated by one of the healers,
and we were also taking water
as a proxy for the body.
And the way that we did
it, we took an aliquot
of water, a couple of
millimeters of water,
and put it around a
necklace that the healer
would wear during the healing.
And then we gave the
same to the client.
So before all of
that happened we
took a few drops from
each aliquot and did
a spectrograph
analysis, which tells us
about the molecular bonding
in the water itself.
And then they did the half an
hour of healing, took the water
and did it again.
So we have pre-healing,
post-healing structure
of water comparison.
>> What researchers
found was extraordinary.
>> Well, what we found on that
was quite strong evidence that
the water around the
healer's neck had changed,
and it changed in a place
where we kind of expected it
to change, which is called
the stretching bond.
There's something about not
necessarily mental intention
towards the water,
because in the case
of healing the patient, yes,
they were wearing the necklace,
but the healer wasn't
thinking about the water.
They were just engaged in a
highly focused mental activity,
and that was apparently
sufficient to change that water
in the way that we saw.
>> Just what are the
implications of these results?
>> Clinical study looking
at energy medicine,
the most important thing was,
is there clinical relevance.
So the measure there is,
was the pain reduced.
So the answer was, yes,
very significant statistical
difference and even
clinical significance.
We took a number of other
measures, water measures,
magnetic field measures,
random number generators,
to see if there was something
that could be detected
in the environment itself.
All of that together,
especially the clinical outcome,
suggests that whatever it is
that energy healers are doing,
it not only affects the patient
but it affects something
in the environment,
and it affects it
in an objectively measured way.
>> IONS' most recent
experiment looked at the effect
of intentionally treated water
on the growth of stem cells.
The results have the potential
to change everything.
>> One of the implications is
that wherever stem cells are
being used, you want to train
the people who are growing
the stem cells to maintain a
certain intention that these
cells are going to grow better,
and then see what happens.
If it worked, well, that
would change everything,
because now it means
that anybody doing
any kind of mental preparation,
not just STEM cells,
but anything, if they come
at it with an intention
that this is going
to work better, well,
it looks like it'll work better.
>> More on this important
study and just what may account
for these fascinating effects in
part 2 of our Gaia News special
investigation.
For a new perspective,
this is Gaia News.
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.